---
layout: post
title:  "A New Hope"
date:   2017-10-19 00:10:00-0400
categories: jekyll update
---
#### Soumya Kundu, Drew Monroe, Sailesh Simhadri

### Updates
After a group sit down, we have better clarity on our goals which we have highlighted in our design document. This week, we have focused on implementing a minimum viable product with attention to the folowing goals:

1. Easy as possible to write
2. Easily learnable
3. Simple Syntax
4. Easy to read

With these goals in mind, we decided that we should use backticks instead of backslash. This makes the text more readable and less cumbersome to write. More details of our changes will be given in the following section.

Furthermore, we have been making progress towards our minimum viable product. Namely, our parser now creates a html file that outputs text and visualization adjacent to each other. Furthermore, we highlight text and shapes when hovered over to easily tell which object in text corresponds to which object on screen. Our last goal for a minimum viable product is to add steps to see a construction of the visualization. A timeline and goals for this will be highlighted in the last section.


### Design Decisions

### Future Plans
While specifying the exact coordinates for each point in the marked-up text seems to be working well, we ideally want a more elegant solution that can generate the points from the constraints implied by the text. Designing an algorithm that can accomplish that objective is therefore a long term goal for the backend that we will continue to work on. In addition to that, we want to faciliate a step-by-step generation of the diagrams in the text to illustrate the process of constructing the proofs in the propositions. One possible way to accomplish this might be to pass an array of array of objects to the frontend, where each array of objects will correspond to the objects that need to be generated in each step of the construction. Accomplishing this objective is the immediate short term goal for the backend team, and we hope to get this working by the end of next week.
